>> Marcy Sutton: So for
a progressive enhancement demo.
Because Gatsby is doing this
automatically, I have to go and
do a little bit more if I have
interactive things that I want to
fall back more gracefully.
So an example would be a tab switcher or a
menu, something that's really interactive
and maybe it's collapsed by default and
you need JavaScript to open it.
Those styles, like if CSS loads but
JavaScript doesn't, that widget's
just locked up and no one can use it.
So instead, if JavaScript's disabled,
what if it's just expanded by default?
And that's just where I start with.
So you start with this accessible
base line and then layer on top.
But with Gatsby,
that's kind of not as intuitive.
So in talking with the team about
how they would approach this,
I came up with a pretty good pattern.
So I'm going to go and implement this.
Let's go back to our app.
I have this section
called Enhanced Tablist.
And it is blank right now cuz I'm gonna go
and write the bare bones like basics of
how to actually override what
Gatsby is compiling by default.
So I'm gonna go into
this enhanced tab list.
It is pulling in the sort of shell of
a component called Enhancing List.
And I'm gonna pass in a number of items.
So the sort of conceptual basis for
this component would be a tab switcher
that starts out life as
just a list of content.
And so I'm going to go start
that in the components area.
So I've got this TabList in here,
and it has a little
bit of stuff in here by default,
things that I am really interested in.
So this TabList,
it's using React State and then useEffect.
So we used the useEffect Hook for
things like sending focus to
the first item in the drop down.
Sending that like click outside listener.
In this case, when the JavaScript
downloads and executes, it's like,
I have a handle on it,
now I have client rendered environment.
Okay, now I can enhance things.
Interesting.
So if I use this useState Hook and
useEffect, I can go in here and
do a little bit more work to actually
change how my layouts render.
Okay, so let's start out here by adding
an unordered list, and this might be
the markup that gets transformed into
something much more interactive later on.
But I can go an use this logic.
I'm gonna spread
the isClient state variable.
And this is a really interesting trick
that I didn't know about before.
I can say, if it's the client,
I can go and add an aria role.
So I'm gonna add a role of TabList.
This is only going to be added in
the client JavaScript part of my app.
So if JavaScript is turned off, this
is just gonna be a regular owner list.
Because if I'm adding aria roles and
aria states that required JavaScript to
operate, and then someone turns JavaScript
off and turns on a screen reader, they're
gonna be like, why is this thing called
the TabList when it's not interactive.
So, that's why I'm making these changes.
So I've got this list.
I am going to iterate over the items.
So the items that I was passing in
from the page where this is called,
I'm gonna say items.map.
I'm gonna pass in an item, and
that needs to go inside the parentheses.
And I need to close it.
>> Marcy Sutton: Didn't do this right.
I'm gonna back up.
So I normally put this like that.
Okay, still need closing paren.
I feel like something wrong here.
Okay, it's because it just needs
to be a paren, not brackets, okay.
Now, I've got my map function.
Okay, so I'm gonna go in here and
do a really similar thing.
I'm gonna say li.key,
because I'm iterating over these items.
And I need some sort of
like a unique identifier or
reaction that will complain at me.
So I've got this list item here.
And I'm gonna do the similar spread
of the isClient state variable.
And I'm gonna do something, actually I
need to do this on the list item itself.
So I'm gonna move this carrot and
I'm gonna say role of tab.
So this will dynamically change what role,
and I can add aria here in a Gatsby
environment, when otherwise it's
kind of abstracted away from me.
So item.label is what I'm
gonna get from this component.
Let me see what else I missed.
>> Speaker 2: Your items is dot map.
It has a opening curly burst.
>> Speaker 3: A closing curly
burst after the right parentheses.
>> Marcy Sutton: Here we go.
Now, still not right.
I need another closing print.
Okay, yeah,
I'm in this JSX environment, and
the way that you kind of toggle
between dynamic code and
code that will output as HTML like this
ankle bracket UL is to use these curlies.
I think we're just getting
in a part of the day when
it's kinda getting hard to do it all.
[LAUGH] So thanks for sticking with me.
So I've got this item.
It's iterating over these times.
It's got a label in it.
And that's pretty much
all I'm gonna add here.
I just want to see it add these roles and
turn things on and off.
So I'm gonna do something
super interesting and
hope the demo gods work great here.
I'm gonna do Gatsby Build.
Actually gonna do a Gatsby Clean first
cuz I'm using Gatsby Themes, and
those are MPM dependencies.
So I need to blow that away sometimes.
So Gatsby Build and Gatsby Serve.
I'm gonna build it and it's going
to compile these web like this into
an actual static site, that if I turn
off JavaScript, the pages will generate.
And that's what I mentioned
earlier how Gatsby Develop and
Gatsby Build differ develop
when you turn off JavaScript,
cuz its development mode like you don't
need to build all that every time.
But when you do run
Gatsby Build to deploy it,
that's when you get like
full HTML static pages.
And then if JavaScript is available,
it will execute client side scripts.
So I'm building this right now, and then
I'm just gonna serve it in the browser and
go turn off JavaScript.
Will toggle it on and off and see what
effect that had on this little component.
It takes a little bit
longer to build this, so
maybe that'll paint the picture of
why developed mode is so useful.
So this is the same site,
just running on local host 9000.
And if I go to the enhanced TabList, so
it's like really straightforward markup,
just to show.
So here's our role RUI,
role of TabList, and role of Tab.
So if I was making this into a full
accessible tab switcher, and
I wanted something that worked without
JavaScript slightly differently,
these are those hooks that I could use for
that.
So I'm gonna go to Chrome settings.
I gonna go turn JavaScript
off in my Advanced.
They really don't want you to
turn JavaScript off do they?
So JavaScript, turn it off.
Let's go see what's happening here.
That's 8000.
I need 9000.
So I'm gonna go inspect this markup again.
And it's just the regular straightforward,
unordered list.
And if I do, if I look at the view source,
there's a bunch of HTML.
It's all minified because
that's faster for performance.
So it might not be super human
readable but this is for
machines to read not for humans to read.
I think that's fine.
You could use a purifier if
you really wanted to read it.
Dev Tools is fine in my opinion.
But if I go over to the local host,
the develop mode, it's a lot shorter.
So that's fine for development mode.
If you're doing things for progressive
enhancement, this does give you
the control to actually change what
is output, which is pretty awesome.
I had for other JavaScript frameworks
it's always like a whole system that
you have to figure out, and then it gets
might be customed to every application.
And this API, I find to get this
sweet spot in between like supporting
progressive enhancement and static sites
and doing something really interactive.
There's a lot of potential here.
So we've got that working.
Here's a the noScript I mentioned earlier.
So if I inspect that, this is a noScript
element that just works in the browser.
I didn't have to do anything for that.
So that's how that works.
I'm gonna go back to view as code and
I'm gonna clean it again.
>> Marcy Sutton: I think
it didn't matter this time.
So the reason I have to clean
is because when I deploy,
I'm using this thing called prefix paths.
So it actually builds
the site with a path prefix.
So in GitHub,
it's the name of the repo, and
that's a difference from
how I'm running it locally.
And so sometimes you might
need to clean the cache.
Little bit of back story while we're
getting this development mode back up.